Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on salary negotiations.
In this lecture we'll get general tips links for salary information and you'll have a homework assignment
at the end of it.
So here are some general tips about negotiating a salary.
First off don't bring up salary before the company initiates the conversation.
You should wait for the company to ask before you bring it up.
Then always provide a range of salary options based off a minimum that you're willing to take.
So for instance if the minimum amount that you'll do a job for is $50000 your range should be somewhere
between 50 and let's say 65.
You should also understand what you're worth and we'll look at the links later on the lecture to get
a better understanding of salaries are given positions you're applying for.
That will also help you be prepared to support your numbers with evidence.
Couple of more tips.
Don't forget to include benefits as part of the total compensation package such as health insurance
free meals gym etc. but also make sure you don't overvalue these.
For instance if your company provides free gym membership.
Keep in mind how much gym membership costs per month.
If it's just an extra $40 a month that's not a huge addition to your total compensation package.
Again don't be too quick to accept a counteroffer and give yourself room to negotiate some resources
for finding out relevant salary information are listed here.
Their salary the pay scale that come and finally I highly recommend glass door though especially for
the tech field.
All of these Web sites use reported salaries to give you a range for either the specific company position
or just the general geographical area and you're working.
Company title.
So go ahead and check out those links.
Try Glassdoor first and then check out salary that common pay scale but come.
Finally your homework is to view the following video lecture by a Harvard Business School professional
.
Scuse me professor on how to negotiate your job offer.
It's about an hour long.
So keep that in mind that it's a great resource for learning the ins and outs of negotiation.
It's also followed by a question and answer session.
The link is also in the resource section of the lecture so you can either download this PowerPoint presentation
and click the link from it or check out the resource section of this lecture.
All right that's it.
So go ahead and check that video out and that's it for salary negotiation tips.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture.
We're going to discuss specific salary negotiation questions and answers.
Thanks